---
layout: post
title:  "Halfway Through."
date:   2015-07-12
categories: code
---

Wow, what a couple of weeks.  There hasn't been much activity here, mainly because I have been swamped with class work.  In these two weeks, we've learned some pretty intense lessons in HTML, CSS, Javascript, and now AJAX, along with some pretty solid review work with Ruby, Sinatra and SQLite.  This two week stretch has been, at least for me, the most intense part so far.  The entry weeks with Ruby and the build up on that was made a lot easier by the prep work we did, which looking back was a really awesome thing to have done.  Building onto that base with what we've done the last two weeks has been pretty difficult, having to learn the basics and the syntax for basically 3 different languages, having to apply them through what are basic "prep-work" level problems, and build on that to put together a few pretty interesting ideas, while using what we've learned to continue to build on what we did the first few weeks.

Adding CSS and Javascript to our Sinatra projects from the first couple weeks was a fun and interesting use.  There wasn't a lot to add on yet, but we did add some mobile-friendly functionality, while using what we've learned to make the site look and feel different on mobile and laptop/desktop devices.  Hamburger menu functionality for mobile users was added (I love that they call it hamburger menus, and I grabbed an icon that's colored like a hamburger while using the base design), and then changed into a header nav menu for bigger viewports.  Also along with that the main screen-wide menu options on the mobile view were moved to a sidebar menu, with the main area set up to allow text or other future functionality.  I would guess in the next couple of weeks that the main area will be set up so that once you click a link on the side, AJAX will allow the form to immediately be brought into view while not moving the user away from the page they're on.  AJAX does seem to allow for quite a bit of new functionality to be added, and I'm excited to learn more about it as we go.

CSS in week 5 was by far the hardest thing I've done in this class so far.  It's totally design centered, about making stuff look good, and right, and positioned in the right way.  It's very aptly been referred to as "duct-tape", and it's (at least for me) very hard to get the duct-tape aligned the right way.  Looking at some of the things you can do with CSS has been quite eye-opening, and I would bet with enough practice and work I could get there, it just seems really unattainable at this point.  On the other end, Javascript this last week has been kind of a welcome new piece to learn.  It's really felt like a return to where I was with Ruby, and I can really see the connection between different portions of the languages.  It feels familiar, even though I'm working with new syntax and structure in a different language. Knowing I can set up Javascript (and AJAX as we learn more in this vein) to modify a page and add CSS as we go I think will be a nice boon to my understanding and ability to use CSS in more ways.

We're at the halfway point.  6 weeks down, 6 weeks to go.  It's been a wild, crazy, exhausting ride, and the best is coming up. I'm still completely glad I took this chance, and while the end of this class is both right around the corner and forever away, I have mixed feelings about finishing.  For one, it's exciting to think about what's ahead after this is done, what new adventures and challenges await a new career.  For another, it's almost terrifying walking into a new career and situation, coming off a class where we learned so much, and are eager to apply it, and trying to fit into a new team and structure and routine.  A lot of change is coming, and has come already.  But that's what the goal was when I started, to hop out of my comfort zone, to make a change that would make me happier in a career, and I know that this is the path to that.